[MUSIC]
We're going to start
talking about Linux now.
This module is all about Linux.
We need to talk about Linux because Linux
is the operating system that is running on
the Raspberry Pi.
So when you use the Raspberry Pi
you're going to be using Linux.
Now most of what we're talking about is
pretty much uniform for any Linux, okay?
We're talking about generic commands
just to know your way around
the operating system so that you can
use it and feel comfortable using it.
A lot of what we're gonna talk about
is about the text-based interface.
We'll also talk about
the graphic user interface, but
the text-based interface is good
because I can list everything that
the operating system can do more
easily in the text-based interface.
And a lot of this can be done also
in the graphic user interface.
I'll show you some of that too.
So let's start with the shell.
Linux has a shell.
A shell is basically a program
that intercepts user input and
executes commands.
So it's just the interface.
The program that reads
what you type in and
then outputs the results to the screen.
So that's the shell.
It's the text-based interface for
the operating system.
Now, there are many shells you can run.
Lots of different shells, sh was the
original shell, right, for a Unix machine.
C shell, TC shell,
there's a whole bunch of shells, right?
The shell we're using is bash,
bourne again shell.
B-A-S-H, bash.
That's the default one on Raspian,
for instance.
And on most Linuxes now,
people use bourne again shell.
It's the default shell, so when we open
up a shell, when we start a terminal
window and there's a shell running in it,
it's bash shell.
You might wanna know that.
If you wanna do more sophisticated
things later with shell scripting and
stuff like that, you'll wanna
know which shell you're running.
Now shells, as opposed to graphic
user interfaces, using the shell is,
it gives you more precise
control as the user.
Also it's precise and complete,
you can do everything out of the shell.
Also for remote use, if you wanna connect
to a device and use it over a network,
something like that,
a shell is much more convenient.
Because sending the graphics
information required for a GUI is slow,
but also unnecessary and
it requires extra work on your part.
So sometimes,
it's just easier to use a shell.
Now, the downside of the shell is that you
really need to memorize a few of these
basics in order to use it efficiently.
You don't wanna have to be looking up
in the manual everything you wanna do.
So you wanna have in your mind a set
of basic commands that you just know
in order to use the shell.
I mean,
I still look up things in the shell,
but you wanna have the basic
commands in your head.
So a console or terminal.
This is, basically it's a term,
it's a text entry and display device.
So it used to be physical device.
So you used to have a vt100 or vt220
terminal, I had one of these in my house.
It's like a screen,
keyboard, and I'd connect it by
a modem to the main computer.
And it was my terminal or my console.
Now basically, people don't usually
use vt100 terminals at home anymore,
usually you use virtual terminals.
So virtual terminal means,
that's what we'd be using,
it's a window that appears on your
screen which runs a shell in it.
So a terminal,
its whole job is to run the shell.
And to run whatever the shell
program is to read your input.
And then send those shell commands to the
operating system and get them executed.
And then, take the responses and
print them to the screen.
So, a terminal is basically what's running
the shell, or a console runs a shell.
Virtual consoles are what we use,
basically a window,
that a shell is running in.
LXTerminal is the terminal
used in Raspian.
The default terminal.
So, there's an application called
LXTerminal and you run that application.
It will open a window
with the terminal in it.
So, from the GUI, tpically we're gonna
start in the Raspian with its GUI running,
and when we want a shell we can start
LXTerminal and pop open a terminal.
And by the way, to start there,
if you setup Raspian up in the top bar,
there's a little picture
at top toward the left,
there's a little picture of a terminal,
of a screen.
You click on that and
that starts the terminal.
It starts LXterminal.
So that's how would you typically
invoke a terminal from Raspian's GUI.
This is what LXTerminal looks like.
So, once you start it, then you
get a Window that looks like this.
And you can see in there, there's just a
little bit of text and a prompt, $ prompt.
After the prompt,
you type in your commands, hit Enter.
And it executes them.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]